docs/source/get-started/quickstart.rst, before:

==========
Quickstart
==========

This quickstart demonstrates how to build a text summarization application with a Transformer model `sshleifer/distilbart-cnn-12-6 <https://huggingface.co/sshleifer/distilbart-cnn-12-6>`_ from the Hugging Face Model Hub. It helps you become familiar with the BentoML workflow and gain a basic understanding of the model serving lifecycle in BentoML. Specifically, you will do the following in this tutorial:

- Set up the BentoML environment
- Create a BentoML Service
- Serve the model locally

You can find all the project files in the `quickstart <https://github.com/bentoml/quickstart>`_ GitHub repository.

Prerequisites
-------------

- Python 3.8+ and ``pip`` installed. See the `Python downloads page <https://www.python.org/downloads/>`_ to learn more.
- (Optional) We recommend you create a virtual environment for dependency isolation. See the `Conda documentation <https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html>`_ or the `Python documentation <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`_ for details.

Install dependencies
--------------------

Run the following command to install the required dependencies.

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install bentoml --pre
    pip install transformers torch

Create a BentoML Service
------------------------

You can define the serving logic of the model in a ``service.py`` file by creating a BentoML Service as below.

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: `service.py`

    from __future__ import annotations
    import bentoml
    from transformers import pipeline


    EXAMPLE_INPUT = "Breaking News: In an astonishing turn of events, the small \
    town of Willow Creek has been taken by storm as local resident Jerry Thompson's cat, \
    Whiskers, performed what witnesses are calling a 'miraculous and gravity-defying leap.' \
    Eyewitnesses report that Whiskers, an otherwise unremarkable tabby cat, jumped \
    a record-breaking 20 feet into the air to catch a fly. The event, which took \
    place in Thompson's backyard, is now being investigated by scientists for potential \
    breaches in the laws of physics. Local authorities are considering a town festival \
    to celebrate what is being hailed as 'The Leap of the Century."


    @bentoml.service(
        resources={"cpu": "2"},
        traffic={"timeout": 10},
    )
    class Summarization:
        def __init__(self) -> None:
            self.pipeline = pipeline('summarization')

        @bentoml.api
        def summarize(self, text: str = EXAMPLE_INPUT) -> str:
            result = self.pipeline(text)
            return result[0]['summary_text']

In BentoML, a :doc:`Service </guides/services>` is a deployable and scalable unit, defined as a Python class with the ``@bentoml.service`` decorator. It can manage states and their lifecycle, and expose one or multiple APIs accessible through HTTP. Each API within the Service is defined using the ``@bentoml.api`` decorator, specifying it as a Python function.

In the ``Summarization`` class, the Service retrieves a pre-trained model (``sshleifer/distilbart-cnn-12-6``) from the Hugging Face hub and initializes a pipeline for text summarization. The ``summarize`` method serves as the API endpoint. In this example, it accepts a string input with an example provided, processes it through the pipeline, and returns the summarized text.

Run ``bentoml serve service:<service_class_name>`` in your project directory to start the BentoML server.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ bentoml serve service:Summarization

    2023-12-18T06:51:51+0000 [INFO] [cli] Prometheus metrics for HTTP BentoServer from "service:Summarization" can be accessed at http://localhost:3000/metrics.
    2023-12-18T06:51:51+0000 [INFO] [cli] Starting production HTTP BentoServer from "service:Summarization" listening on http://localhost:3000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)

The server is active at http://localhost:3000. You can interact with it in different ways.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: CURL

        .. code-block:: bash

            curl -X 'POST' \
                'http://localhost:3000/summarize' \
                -H 'accept: text/plain' \
                -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
                -d '{
                "text": "Breaking News: In an astonishing turn of events, the small town of Willow Creek has been taken by storm as local resident Jerry Thompson'\''s cat, Whiskers, performed what witnesses are calling a '\''miraculous and gravity-defying leap.'\'' Eyewitnesses report that Whiskers, an otherwise unremarkable tabby cat, jumped a record-breaking 20 feet into the air to catch a fly. The event, which took place in Thompson'\''s backyard, is now being investigated by scientists for potential breaches in the laws of physics. Local authorities are considering a town festival to celebrate what is being hailed as '\''The Leap of the Century."
                }'

    .. tab-item:: BentoML client

        .. code-block:: python

            import bentoml

            with bentoml.SyncHTTPClient("http://localhost:3000") as client:
                result = client.summarize(
                    text="Breaking News: In an astonishing turn of events, the small town of Willow Creek has been taken by storm as local resident Jerry Thompson's cat, Whiskers, performed what witnesses are calling a 'miraculous and gravity-defying leap.' Eyewitnesses report that Whiskers, an otherwise unremarkable tabby cat, jumped a record-breaking 20 feet into the air to catch a fly. The event, which took place in Thompson's backyard, is now being investigated by scientists for potential breaches in the laws of physics. Local authorities are considering a town festival to celebrate what is being hailed as 'The Leap of the Century.'"
                )

    .. tab-item:: Swagger UI

        Visit `http://localhost:3000 <http://localhost:3000/>`_, scroll down to **Service APIs**, and click **Try it out**. In the **Request body** box, enter your prompt and click **Execute**.

        .. image:: ../_static/img/get-started/quickstart/service-ui.png

Expected output:

.. code-block:: bash

    Whiskers, an otherwise unremarkable tabby cat, jumped a record-breaking 20 feet into the air to catch a fly . The event is now being investigated by scientists for potential breaches in the laws of physics . Local authorities considering a town festival to celebrate what is being hailed as 'The Leap of the Century'

Once the Service is ready, you can deploy this BentoML project on BentoCloud or :doc:`create a Docker image </guides/containerization>` for it and ship it anywhere.

Commit message:

docs: Update the quickstart (#4474)
* Update the quickstart

Signed-off-by: Sherlock113 <sherlockxu07@gmail.com>

* Add cd command

Signed-off-by: Sherlock113 <sherlockxu07@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Sherlock113 <sherlockxu07@gmail.com>

docs/source/get-started/quickstart.rst, after:

==========
Quickstart
==========

This quickstart demonstrates how to build a text summarization application with a Transformer model `sshleifer/distilbart-cnn-12-6 <https://huggingface.co/sshleifer/distilbart-cnn-12-6>`_ from the Hugging Face Model Hub. It helps you become familiar with the BentoML workflow and gain a basic understanding of the model serving lifecycle in BentoML. Specifically, you will do the following in this tutorial:

- Set up the BentoML environment
- Create a BentoML Service
- Serve the model locally

You can find all the project files in the `quickstart <https://github.com/bentoml/quickstart>`_ GitHub repository.

Prerequisites
-------------

- Python 3.8+ and ``pip`` installed. See the `Python downloads page <https://www.python.org/downloads/>`_ to learn more.
- (Optional) We recommend you create a virtual environment for dependency isolation. See the `Conda documentation <https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html>`_ or the `Python documentation <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`_ for details.

Install dependencies
--------------------

Run the following command to clone the repository and install the required dependencies.

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/bentoml/quickstart.git
    cd quickstart
    pip install -r requirements.txt

Create a BentoML Service
------------------------

You can define the serving logic of the model in a ``service.py`` file by creating a BentoML Service. Here is the example file in this project:

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: `service.py`

    from __future__ import annotations
    import bentoml
    from transformers import pipeline


    EXAMPLE_INPUT = "Breaking News: In an astonishing turn of events, the small \
    town of Willow Creek has been taken by storm as local resident Jerry Thompson's cat, \
    Whiskers, performed what witnesses are calling a 'miraculous and gravity-defying leap.' \
    Eyewitnesses report that Whiskers, an otherwise unremarkable tabby cat, jumped \
    a record-breaking 20 feet into the air to catch a fly. The event, which took \
    place in Thompson's backyard, is now being investigated by scientists for potential \
    breaches in the laws of physics. Local authorities are considering a town festival \
    to celebrate what is being hailed as 'The Leap of the Century."


    @bentoml.service(
        resources={"cpu": "2"},
        traffic={"timeout": 10},
    )
    class Summarization:
        def __init__(self) -> None:
            self.pipeline = pipeline('summarization')

        @bentoml.api
        def summarize(self, text: str = EXAMPLE_INPUT) -> str:
            result = self.pipeline(text)
            return result[0]['summary_text']

In BentoML, a :doc:`Service </guides/services>` is a deployable and scalable unit, defined as a Python class with the ``@bentoml.service`` decorator. It can manage states and their lifecycle, and expose one or multiple APIs accessible through HTTP. Each API within the Service is defined using the ``@bentoml.api`` decorator, specifying it as a Python function.

In the ``Summarization`` class, the Service retrieves a pre-trained model (``sshleifer/distilbart-cnn-12-6``) from the Hugging Face hub and initializes a pipeline for text summarization. The ``summarize`` method serves as the API endpoint. In this example, it accepts a string input with a sample provided, processes it through the pipeline, and returns the summarized text.

Run ``bentoml serve service:<service_class_name>`` in your project directory to start the BentoML server.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ bentoml serve service:Summarization

    2024-02-02T07:16:14+0000 [WARNING] [cli] Converting 'Summarization' to lowercase: 'summarization'.
    2024-02-02T07:16:15+0000 [INFO] [cli] Starting production HTTP BentoServer from "service:Summarization" listening on http://localhost:3000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)

The server is active at http://localhost:3000. You can interact with it in different ways.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: CURL

        .. code-block:: bash

            curl -X 'POST' \
                'http://localhost:3000/summarize' \
                -H 'accept: text/plain' \
                -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
                -d '{
                "text": "Breaking News: In an astonishing turn of events, the small town of Willow Creek has been taken by storm as local resident Jerry Thompson'\''s cat, Whiskers, performed what witnesses are calling a '\''miraculous and gravity-defying leap.'\'' Eyewitnesses report that Whiskers, an otherwise unremarkable tabby cat, jumped a record-breaking 20 feet into the air to catch a fly. The event, which took place in Thompson'\''s backyard, is now being investigated by scientists for potential breaches in the laws of physics. Local authorities are considering a town festival to celebrate what is being hailed as '\''The Leap of the Century."
                }'

    .. tab-item:: BentoML client

        .. code-block:: python

            import bentoml

            with bentoml.SyncHTTPClient("http://localhost:3000") as client:
                result = client.summarize(
                    text="Breaking News: In an astonishing turn of events, the small town of Willow Creek has been taken by storm as local resident Jerry Thompson's cat, Whiskers, performed what witnesses are calling a 'miraculous and gravity-defying leap.' Eyewitnesses report that Whiskers, an otherwise unremarkable tabby cat, jumped a record-breaking 20 feet into the air to catch a fly. The event, which took place in Thompson's backyard, is now being investigated by scientists for potential breaches in the laws of physics. Local authorities are considering a town festival to celebrate what is being hailed as 'The Leap of the Century.'"
                )

    .. tab-item:: Swagger UI

        Visit `http://localhost:3000 <http://localhost:3000/>`_, scroll down to **Service APIs**, and click **Try it out**. In the **Request body** box, enter your prompt and click **Execute**.

        .. image:: ../_static/img/get-started/quickstart/service-ui.png

Expected output:

.. code-block:: bash

    Whiskers, an otherwise unremarkable tabby cat, jumped a record-breaking 20 feet into the air to catch a fly . The event is now being investigated by scientists for potential breaches in the laws of physics . Local authorities considering a town festival to celebrate what is being hailed as 'The Leap of the Century'

Once the Service is ready, you can deploy this :doc:`BentoML project on BentoCloud </guides/deployment>` or :doc:`create a Docker image </guides/containerization>` for it and ship it anywhere.
