docs/source/use-cases/diffusion-models/controlnet.rst, before:

==========
ControlNet
==========

ControlNet is a neural network architecture designed to enhance the precision and control in generating images using text and image prompts. It allows you to influence image composition, adjust specific elements, and ensure spatial consistency. ControlNet can be used for various creative and precise image generation tasks, such as defining specific poses for human figures and replicating the composition or layout from one image in a new image.

This document demonstrates how to use ControlNet and Stable Diffusion XL to create an image generation application for specific user requirements.

Prerequisites
-------------

- Python 3.9+ and ``pip`` installed. See the `Python downloads page <https://www.python.org/downloads/>`_ to learn more.
- You have a basic understanding of key concepts in BentoML, such as Services. We recommend you read :doc:`/get-started/quickstart` first.
- (Optional) We recommend you create a virtual environment for dependency isolation. See the `Conda documentation <https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html>`_ or the `Python documentation <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`_ for details.

Install dependencies
--------------------

Clone the project repository and install all the dependencies.

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/bentoml/BentoControlNet.git
    cd BentoControlNet
    pip install -r requirements.txt

Define the model serving logic
------------------------------

Create BentoML :doc:`/guides/services` in a ``service.py`` file to specify the serving logic of this BentoML project. In the cloned repository, you can find an example ``service.py`` file that uses the following models:

- `diffusers/controlnet-canny-sdxl-1.0 <https://huggingface.co/diffusers/controlnet-canny-sdxl-1.0>`_: Offers enhanced control in the image generation process. It allows for precise modifications based on text and image inputs, making sure the generated images are more aligned with specific user requirements (for example, replicating certain compositions).
- `madebyollin/sdxl-vae-fp16-fix <https://huggingface.co/madebyollin/sdxl-vae-fp16-fix>`_: This Variational Autoencoder (VAE) is responsible for encoding and decoding images within the pipeline.
- `stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0 <https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0>`_: Takes text prompts and image inputs, processes them through the above two integrated models, and generates images that reflect the given prompts.

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: `service.py`

    from __future__ import annotations

    import typing as t

    import numpy as np
    import PIL
    from PIL.Image import Image as PIL_Image

    from pydantic import BaseModel

    import bentoml

    CONTROLNET_MODEL_ID = "diffusers/controlnet-canny-sdxl-1.0"
    VAE_MODEL_ID = "madebyollin/sdxl-vae-fp16-fix"
    BASE_MODEL_ID = "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0"

    @bentoml.service(
        traffic={"timeout": 600},
        workers=1,
        resources={
            "gpu": 1,
            "gpu_type": "nvidia-l4",
        }
    )
    class ControlNet:

        def __init__(self) -> None:

            import torch
            from diffusers import StableDiffusionXLControlNetPipeline, ControlNetModel, AutoencoderKL

            if torch.cuda.is_available():
                self.device = "cuda"
                self.dtype = torch.float16
            else:
                self.device = "cpu"
                self.dtype = torch.float32

            self.controlnet = ControlNetModel.from_pretrained(
                CONTROLNET_MODEL_ID,
                torch_dtype=self.dtype,
            )

            self.vae = AutoencoderKL.from_pretrained(
                VAE_MODEL_ID,
                torch_dtype=self.dtype,
            )

            self.pipe = StableDiffusionXLControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained(
                BASE_MODEL_ID,
                controlnet=self.controlnet,
                vae=self.vae,
                torch_dtype=self.dtype
            ).to(self.device)

        @bentoml.api
        async def generate(self, image: PIL_Image, params: Params) -> PIL_Image:
            import cv2

            arr = np.array(image)
            arr = cv2.Canny(arr, 100, 200)
            arr = arr[:, :, None]
            arr = np.concatenate([arr, arr, arr], axis=2)
            params_d = params.dict()
            prompt = params_d.pop("prompt")
            image = PIL.Image.fromarray(arr)
            return self.pipe(
                prompt,
                image=image,
                **params_d
            ).to_tuple()[0][0]

    class Params(BaseModel):
        prompt: str
        negative_prompt: t.Optional[str]
        controlnet_conditioning_scale: float = 0.5
        num_inference_steps: int = 25

This file defines a BentoML Service ``ControlNet`` with custom :doc:`configurations </guides/configurations>` in timeout, worker count, and resources.

- It loads the three pre-trained models and configures them to use GPU if available. The main pipeline (``StableDiffusionXLControlNetPipeline``) integrates these models.
- It defines an asynchronous API endpoint ``generate``, which takes an image and a set of parameters as input. The parameters for the generation process are extracted from a ``Params`` instance, a Pydantic model that provides automatic data validation.
- The ``generate`` method returns the generated image by calling the pipeline with the processed image and text prompts.

Run ``bentoml serve`` in your project directory to start the BentoML server.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ bentoml serve service:ControlNet

    2024-01-09T04:33:24+0000 [INFO] [cli] Starting production HTTP BentoServer from "service:ControlNet" listening on http://localhost:3000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)

The server is active at `http://localhost:3000 <http://localhost:3000>`_. You can interact with it in different ways.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: CURL

        .. code-block:: bash

            curl -X 'POST' \
                'http://localhost:3000/generate' \
                -H 'accept: image/*' \
                -H 'Content-Type: multipart/form-data' \
                -F 'image=@example-image.png;type=image/png' \
                -F 'params={
                "prompt": "A young man walking in a park, wearing jeans.",
                "negative_prompt": "ugly, disfigured, ill-structured, low resolution",
                "controlnet_conditioning_scale": 0.5,
                "num_inference_steps": 25
                }'

    .. tab-item:: BentoML client

        .. code-block:: python

            import bentoml
            from pathlib import Path

            with bentoml.SyncHTTPClient("http://localhost:3000") as client:
                result = client.generate(
                    image=Path("example-image.png"),
                    params={
                            "prompt": "A young man walking in a park, wearing jeans.",
                            "negative_prompt": "ugly, disfigured, ill-structure, low resolution",
                            "controlnet_conditioning_scale": 0.5,
                            "num_inference_steps": 25
                    },
                )

    .. tab-item:: Swagger UI

        Visit `http://localhost:3000 <http://localhost:3000/>`_, scroll down to **Service APIs**, specify the image and parameters, and click **Execute**.

        .. image:: ../../_static/img/use-cases/diffusion-models/controlnet/service-ui.png

This is the example image used in the request:

.. image:: ../../_static/img/use-cases/diffusion-models/controlnet/example-image.png

Expected output:

.. image:: ../../_static/img/use-cases/diffusion-models/controlnet/output-image.png

Deploy to production
--------------------

After the Service is ready, you can deploy the project to BentoCloud for better management and scalability.

First, specify a configuration YAML file (``bentofile.yaml``) to define the build options for your application. It is used for packaging your application into a Bento. Here is an example file in the project:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: `bentofile.yaml`

    service: "service:ControlNet"
    labels:
      owner: bentoml-team
      project: gallery
    include:
    - "*.py"
    python:
      requirements_txt: "./requirements.txt"
    docker:
        distro: debian
        system_packages:
          - ffmpeg

Make sure you :doc:`have logged in to BentoCloud </bentocloud/how-tos/manage-access-token>`, then run the following command in your project directory to deploy the application to BentoCloud.

.. code-block:: bash

    bentoml deploy .

Once the application is up and running on BentoCloud, you can access it via the exposed URL.

.. note::

   Alternatively, you can use BentoML to generate an :doc:`OCI-compliant image for a more custom deployment </guides/containerization>`.

Commit message:

docs: Update all use cases (#4532)
Update all use cases

Signed-off-by: Sherlock113 <sherlockxu07@gmail.com>

docs/source/use-cases/diffusion-models/controlnet.rst, after:

==========
ControlNet
==========

ControlNet is a neural network architecture designed to enhance the precision and control in generating images using text and image prompts. It allows you to influence image composition, adjust specific elements, and ensure spatial consistency. ControlNet can be used for various creative and precise image generation tasks, such as defining specific poses for human figures and replicating the composition or layout from one image in a new image.

This document demonstrates how to use ControlNet and Stable Diffusion XL to create an image generation application for specific user requirements.

Prerequisites
-------------

- Python 3.9+ and ``pip`` installed. See the `Python downloads page <https://www.python.org/downloads/>`_ to learn more.
- You have a basic understanding of key concepts in BentoML, such as Services. We recommend you read :doc:`/get-started/quickstart` first.
- (Optional) We recommend you create a virtual environment for dependency isolation. See the `Conda documentation <https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html>`_ or the `Python documentation <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`_ for details.

Install dependencies
--------------------

Clone the project repository and install all the dependencies.

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/bentoml/BentoControlNet.git
    cd BentoControlNet
    pip install -r requirements.txt

Define the model serving logic
------------------------------

Create BentoML :doc:`/guides/services` in a ``service.py`` file to specify the serving logic of this BentoML project. In the cloned repository, you can find an example ``service.py`` file that uses the following models:

- `diffusers/controlnet-canny-sdxl-1.0 <https://huggingface.co/diffusers/controlnet-canny-sdxl-1.0>`_: Offers enhanced control in the image generation process. It allows for precise modifications based on text and image inputs, making sure the generated images are more aligned with specific user requirements (for example, replicating certain compositions).
- `madebyollin/sdxl-vae-fp16-fix <https://huggingface.co/madebyollin/sdxl-vae-fp16-fix>`_: This Variational Autoencoder (VAE) is responsible for encoding and decoding images within the pipeline.
- `stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0 <https://huggingface.co/stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0>`_: Takes text prompts and image inputs, processes them through the above two integrated models, and generates images that reflect the given prompts.

.. code-block:: python
    :caption: `service.py`

    from __future__ import annotations

    import typing as t

    import numpy as np
    import PIL
    from PIL.Image import Image as PIL_Image

    from pydantic import BaseModel

    import bentoml

    CONTROLNET_MODEL_ID = "diffusers/controlnet-canny-sdxl-1.0"
    VAE_MODEL_ID = "madebyollin/sdxl-vae-fp16-fix"
    BASE_MODEL_ID = "stabilityai/stable-diffusion-xl-base-1.0"

    @bentoml.service(
        traffic={"timeout": 600},
        workers=1,
        resources={
            "gpu": 1,
            "gpu_type": "nvidia-l4",
        }
    )
    class ControlNet:

        def __init__(self) -> None:

            import torch
            from diffusers import StableDiffusionXLControlNetPipeline, ControlNetModel, AutoencoderKL

            if torch.cuda.is_available():
                self.device = "cuda"
                self.dtype = torch.float16
            else:
                self.device = "cpu"
                self.dtype = torch.float32

            self.controlnet = ControlNetModel.from_pretrained(
                CONTROLNET_MODEL_ID,
                torch_dtype=self.dtype,
            )

            self.vae = AutoencoderKL.from_pretrained(
                VAE_MODEL_ID,
                torch_dtype=self.dtype,
            )

            self.pipe = StableDiffusionXLControlNetPipeline.from_pretrained(
                BASE_MODEL_ID,
                controlnet=self.controlnet,
                vae=self.vae,
                torch_dtype=self.dtype
            ).to(self.device)

        @bentoml.api
        async def generate(self, image: PIL_Image, params: Params) -> PIL_Image:
            import cv2

            arr = np.array(image)
            arr = cv2.Canny(arr, 100, 200)
            arr = arr[:, :, None]
            arr = np.concatenate([arr, arr, arr], axis=2)
            params_d = params.dict()
            prompt = params_d.pop("prompt")
            image = PIL.Image.fromarray(arr)
            return self.pipe(
                prompt,
                image=image,
                **params_d
            ).to_tuple()[0][0]

    class Params(BaseModel):
        prompt: str
        negative_prompt: t.Optional[str]
        controlnet_conditioning_scale: float = 0.5
        num_inference_steps: int = 25

This file defines a BentoML Service ``ControlNet`` with custom :doc:`configurations </guides/configurations>` in timeout, worker count, and resources.

- It loads the three pre-trained models and configures them to use GPU if available. The main pipeline (``StableDiffusionXLControlNetPipeline``) integrates these models.
- It defines an asynchronous API endpoint ``generate``, which takes an image and a set of parameters as input. The parameters for the generation process are extracted from a ``Params`` instance, a Pydantic model that provides automatic data validation.
- The ``generate`` method returns the generated image by calling the pipeline with the processed image and text prompts.

Run ``bentoml serve`` in your project directory to start the BentoML server.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ bentoml serve service:ControlNet

    2024-01-09T04:33:24+0000 [INFO] [cli] Starting production HTTP BentoServer from "service:ControlNet" listening on http://localhost:3000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)

The server is active at `http://localhost:3000 <http://localhost:3000>`_. You can interact with it in different ways.

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: CURL

        .. code-block:: bash

            curl -X 'POST' \
                'http://localhost:3000/generate' \
                -H 'accept: image/*' \
                -H 'Content-Type: multipart/form-data' \
                -F 'image=@example-image.png;type=image/png' \
                -F 'params={
                "prompt": "A young man walking in a park, wearing jeans.",
                "negative_prompt": "ugly, disfigured, ill-structured, low resolution",
                "controlnet_conditioning_scale": 0.5,
                "num_inference_steps": 25
                }'

    .. tab-item:: Python client

        .. code-block:: python

            import bentoml
            from pathlib import Path

            with bentoml.SyncHTTPClient("http://localhost:3000") as client:
                result = client.generate(
                    image=Path("example-image.png"),
                    params={
                            "prompt": "A young man walking in a park, wearing jeans.",
                            "negative_prompt": "ugly, disfigured, ill-structure, low resolution",
                            "controlnet_conditioning_scale": 0.5,
                            "num_inference_steps": 25
                    },
                )

    .. tab-item:: Swagger UI

        Visit `http://localhost:3000 <http://localhost:3000/>`_, scroll down to **Service APIs**, specify the image and parameters, and click **Execute**.

        .. image:: ../../_static/img/use-cases/diffusion-models/controlnet/service-ui.png

This is the example image used in the request:

.. image:: ../../_static/img/use-cases/diffusion-models/controlnet/example-image.png

Expected output:

.. image:: ../../_static/img/use-cases/diffusion-models/controlnet/output-image.png

Deploy to BentoCloud
--------------------

After the Service is ready, you can deploy the project to BentoCloud for better management and scalability. `Sign up <https://www.bentoml.com/>`_ for a BentoCloud account and get $30 in free credits.

First, specify a configuration YAML file (``bentofile.yaml``) to define the build options for your application. It is used for packaging your application into a Bento. Here is an example file in the project:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: `bentofile.yaml`

    service: "service:ControlNet"
    labels:
      owner: bentoml-team
      project: gallery
    include:
    - "*.py"
    python:
      requirements_txt: "./requirements.txt"
    docker:
        distro: debian
        system_packages:
          - ffmpeg

:ref:`Create an API token with Developer Operations Access to log in to BentoCloud <bentocloud/how-tos/manage-access-token:create an api token>`, then run the following command to deploy the project.

.. code-block:: bash

    bentoml deploy .

Once the Deployment is up and running on BentoCloud, you can access it via the exposed URL.

.. image:: ../../_static/img/use-cases/diffusion-models/controlnet/controlnet-bentocloud.png

.. note::

   For custom deployment in your own infrastructure, use BentoML to :doc:`generate an OCI-compliant image</guides/containerization>`.
