docs/source/scale-with-bentocloud/deployment/index.rst, before:

==========
Deployment
==========

Read how-to guides to create and manage your Deployments on BentoCloud.

.. grid:: 1 2 2 2
    :gutter: 3
    :margin: 0
    :padding: 3 4 0 0

    .. grid-item-card:: Create Deployments
        :link: create-deployments
        :link-type: doc

        Create a Bento Deployment on BentoCloud.

    .. grid-item-card:: Configure Deployments
        :link: configure-deployments
        :link-type: doc

        Customize the configurations of your Deployment, such as scaling replicas, environment variables, and instance types.

    .. grid-item-card:: Manage Deployments
        :link: manage-deployments
        :link-type: doc

        Manage the Deployment lifecycle using the BentoML CLI or API.

    .. grid-item-card:: Call Deployment endpoints
        :link: call-deployment-endpoints
        :link-type: doc

        Run inference with Deployments.

    .. grid-item-card:: Create canary Deployments
        :link: canary-deployments
        :link-type: doc

        Gradually roll out a new application version to a subset of users and monitor performance before wider release.

    .. grid-item-card:: Batch inference jobs
        :link: batch-inference-jobs
        :link-type: doc

        Run batch inference jobs with BentoML and BentoCloud.

    .. grid-item-card:: Build CI/CD pipelines
        :link: ci-cd-pipelines
        :link-type: doc

        Build CI/CD pipelines to automate AI deployments on BentoCloud.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :titlesonly:
    :hidden:

    create-deployments
    configure-deployments
    manage-deployments
    call-deployment-endpoints
    canary-deployments
    batch-inference-jobs
    ci-cd-pipelines

Commit message:

docs: Move sandboxes doc to BentoCloud (#5412)
Move sandboxes doc

Signed-off-by: Sherlock113 <sherlockxu07@gmail.com>

docs/source/scale-with-bentocloud/deployment/index.rst, after:

==========
Deployment
==========

Read how-to guides to create and manage your Deployments on BentoCloud.

.. grid:: 1 2 2 2
    :gutter: 3
    :margin: 0
    :padding: 3 4 0 0

    .. grid-item-card:: Create Deployments
        :link: create-deployments
        :link-type: doc

        Create a Bento Deployment on BentoCloud.

    .. grid-item-card:: Configure Deployments
        :link: configure-deployments
        :link-type: doc

        Customize the configurations of your Deployment, such as scaling replicas, environment variables, and instance types.

    .. grid-item-card:: Manage Deployments
        :link: manage-deployments
        :link-type: doc

        Manage the Deployment lifecycle using the BentoML CLI or API.

    .. grid-item-card:: Call Deployment endpoints
        :link: call-deployment-endpoints
        :link-type: doc

        Run inference with Deployments.

    .. grid-item-card:: Create canary Deployments
        :link: canary-deployments
        :link-type: doc

        Gradually roll out a new application version to a subset of users and monitor performance before wider release.

    .. grid-item-card:: Sandboxes
        :link: sandboxes
        :link-type: doc

        Run AI-generated code in an isolated, scalable and secure environment.

    .. grid-item-card:: Batch inference jobs
        :link: batch-inference-jobs
        :link-type: doc

        Run batch inference jobs with BentoML and BentoCloud.

    .. grid-item-card:: Build CI/CD pipelines
        :link: ci-cd-pipelines
        :link-type: doc

        Build CI/CD pipelines to automate AI deployments on BentoCloud.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1
    :titlesonly:
    :hidden:

    create-deployments
    configure-deployments
    manage-deployments
    call-deployment-endpoints
    canary-deployments
    sandboxes
    batch-inference-jobs
    ci-cd-pipelines
