docs/source/guides/configurations.rst, before:

==============
Configurations
==============

BentoML provides a configuration interface that allows you to customize the runtime behavior for individual Services within a Bento. This document explains the available configuration fields and offers best practice recommendations for configuring your BentoML Services.

How do configurations work
--------------------------

BentoML's default configurations are suitable for a wide range of use cases. However, for more granular control over BentoML's features, you can customize these runtime behaviors (like resource allocation and timeout) using the ``@bentoml.service`` decorator for each Service in your ``service.py`` file.

.. note::

   If you are using BentoML versions prior to 1.2, you need to `set these runtime configurations <https://docs.bentoml.com/en/v1.1.11/guides/configuration.html>`_ via a separate ``configuration.yaml`` file.

You only need to specify the configurations you want to customize. BentoML automatically fills in any unspecified configurations with their default values. The following is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(
        resources={"cpu": "2"},
        traffic={"timeout": 60},
    )
    class Summarization:
        # Service implementation

- ``"cpu": "2"`` indicates that the Service is allocated 2 CPU cores. This is important for ensuring the Service has sufficient processing resources.
- ``"timeout": 60`` sets the maximum duration (in seconds) that the Service will wait for a response before timing out. In this case, it's set to 60 seconds.

Configuration fields
--------------------

BentoML offers a comprehensive set of configuration fields, allowing detailed customization of Services. You can use them to meet the specific requirements of different deployment environments and use cases.

``resources``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``resources`` field in BentoML allows you to specify the resource allocation for a Service, including CPU, memory, and GPU. It is useful for managing and optimizing resource usage, particularly when dealing with resource-intensive tasks. Note that **this field only takes effect on BentoCloud**. Available fields are:

- ``cpu``: The number (or the amount) of CPUs that the Service should use. This is a string, like ``“200m”`` or ``“1”``.
- ``memory``: The amount of memory that the Service should use.
- ``gpu``: The number of GPUs allocated to the Service.
- ``gpu_type``: A specific type of GPU to be used on BentoCloud, following the naming conventions of cloud providers like AWS EC2 or GCP GPU instances. Available values include ``nvidia-tesla-t4``, ``nvidia-tesla-a100``, ``nvidia-a100-80gb``, ``nvidia-a10g``, ``nvidia-l4``, ``nvidia-tesla-v100``, ``nvidia-tesla-p100``, ``nvidia-tesla-k80``, and ``nvidia-tesla-p4``.

We recommend you specify at least one field of ``resources``, so that resources can be automatically allocated to the Service on BentoCloud.

Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(
        resources={
            "cpu": "1",
            "memory": "500Mi",
            "gpu": 4,
            "gpu_type": "nvidia-tesla-a100"
        }
    )
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``workers``
^^^^^^^^^^^

``workers`` defines the process-level parallelism within a Service. It allows you to set the number of worker processes. This configuration is useful for optimizing performance, particularly for high-throughput or compute-intensive Services. ``workers`` defaults to ``1``.

.. dropdown:: About BentoML workers

    Under the hood, there are one or multiple workers within a BentoML Service. Workers refer to the processes that actually run the code logic within the Service. If a Service has multiple workers, it can process multiple requests concurrently. Using multiple workers (as separate processes) allows the Service to handle multiple requests concurrently without being limited by Python's Global Interpreter Lock (GIL).

    Note that configuring too many workers in a BentoML Service can lead to inefficient memory utilization, as each worker independently loads model weights into memory. This can result in high memory consumption, particularly with large models. Additionally, in scenarios where model inference is performed outside the Python process and is thus not limited by the GIL, having too many workers may not significantly improve throughput or resource utilization.

To specify the number of workers (for example, ``3``) within a Service:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(workers=3)
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``workers`` also allows for dynamic CPU allocation using the ``cpu_count`` option. This feature can be particularly useful in environments where you want to automatically scale the number of worker processes based on the available CPU cores.

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(workers="cpu_count")
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``traffic``
^^^^^^^^^^^

``traffic`` in BentoML allows you to manage how requests are handled by your Service. This includes settings for timeout periods and maximum concurrent requests, which are helpful for optimizing the Service's responsiveness and load management. Specifically, you can use the following fields:

- ``timeout``: Determines the maximum time the Service will wait for a response to be sent back to the client. The default timeout is set to 60 seconds.
- ``max_concurrency``: Specifies the maximum number of requests that can be queued for processing by the Service. It helps you control the load and prevent the Service from being overwhelmed by too many simultaneous requests. If the max concurrency is reached, requests will be rejected returning ``429``. By default, there is no limit on the maximum concurrency.

Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(traffic={"timeout": 120, "max_concurrency": 50})
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``metrics``
^^^^^^^^^^^

``metrics`` defines the collection and customization of performance metrics. BentoML uses `Prometheus <https://prometheus.io/>`_ to collect these metrics, providing insights into the Service's performance. By default, this feature is enabled.

To disable metrics collection:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(metrics={"enabled": False})
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

Following the `labeling convention <https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/naming/#metric-and-label-naming>`_ of Prometheus, metrics generated by BentoML Services will have namespace ``bentoml_service``. To set a custom namespace:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(metrics={"namespace": "custom_namespace"})
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

.. note::

   For most use cases, you don't need to change the default namespace name.

Every BentoML Service will generate three types of metrics:

1. ``request_duration_seconds``: This is a `Histogram <https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#histogram>`_ that measures the HTTP request duration in seconds. You can customize the `duration bucket size <https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/histograms/#count-and-sum-of-observations>`_ for this metric in the following two ways.

   - Manually set the bucket steps for the histogram.

     .. code-block:: python

         @bentoml.service(metrics={"duration": {"buckets": [0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10]}})
         class MyService:
            # Service implementation

   - Automatically generate exponential buckets with any given ``min`` (the lower bound of the smallest bucket in the histogram), ``max`` (the upper bound of the largest bucket in the histogram) and ``factor`` (determine the exponential growth rate of the bucket sizes. Each subsequent bucket boundary is calculated by multiplying the previous boundary by the factor).

     .. code-block:: python

         @bentoml.service(metrics={"duration": {"min": 0.1, "max": 10, "factor": 1.2}})
         class MyService:
            # Service implementation


     .. note::

        - ``duration.min``, ``duration.max`` and ``duration.factor`` are mutually exclusive with ``duration.buckets``.
        - ``duration.factor`` must be greater than 1.

     By default, BentoML uses the default `duration buckets <https://github.com/prometheus/client_python/blob/f17a8361ad3ed5bc47f193ac03b00911120a8d81/prometheus_client/metrics.py#L544>`_ provided by Prometheus.

2. ``request_total``: A `Counter <https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter>`_ that measures the total number of HTTP requests.
3. ``request_in_progress``: A `Gauge <https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#gauge>`_ that measures the number of HTTP requests in progress.

``runner_probe``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Configure health check settings on BentoCloud for the Service using the endpoints ``readyz``, ``livez``, and ``healthz``. Available fields are:

- ``enabled``: Determines whether the health checks are enabled.
- ``timeout``: The maximum time in seconds to wait for a health check probe to complete before considering it failed.
- ``period``: The frequency, in seconds, at which the health check probes are performed.

Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(runner_probe={"enabled": True, "timeout": 1, "period": 10})
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``logging``
^^^^^^^^^^^

Customize access logging, including the content type and length of requests and responses, and trace ID formats.

Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(logging={
        "access": {
            "enabled": True,
            "request_content_length": True,
            "request_content_type": True,
            "response_content_length": True,
            "response_content_type": True,
            "format": {
                "trace_id": "032x",
                "span_id": "016x"
            }
        }
    })
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``ssl``
^^^^^^^

``ssl`` enables SSL/TLS for secure communication over HTTP requests. It is helpful for protecting sensitive data in transit and ensuring secure connections between clients and your Service.

BentoML parses all the available fields directly to `Uvicorn <https://www.uvicorn.org/settings/#https>`_. Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(ssl={
        "enabled": True,
        "certfile": "/path/to/certfile",
        "keyfile": "/path/to/keyfile",
        "ca_certs": "/path/to/ca_certs",
        "keyfile_password": "",
        "version": 17,
        "cert_reqs": 0,
        "ciphers": "TLSv1"
    })
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``http``
^^^^^^^^

``http`` allows you to customize the settings for the HTTP server that serves your BentoML Service.

By default, BentoML starts an HTTP server on port ``3000``. To change the port:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(http={"port": 5000})
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

You can configure `CORS <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS>`_ settings if your Service needs to accept cross-origin requests. By default, CORS is disabled. If it is enabled, all fields under ``http.cors`` will be parsed to `CORSMiddleware <https://www.starlette.io/middleware/#corsmiddleware>`_. Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(http={
        "cors": {
            "enabled": True,
            "access_control_allow_origins": ["http://myorg.com:8080", "https://myorg.com:8080"],
            "access_control_allow_methods": ["GET", "OPTIONS", "POST", "HEAD", "PUT"],
            "access_control_allow_credentials": True,
            "access_control_allow_headers": ["*"],
            "access_control_allow_origin_regex": "https://.*\.my_org\.com",
            "access_control_max_age": 1200,
            "access_control_expose_headers": ["Content-Length"]
        }
    })
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

Configuring CORS is important when your Service is accessed from web applications hosted on different domains. Proper CORS settings ensure that your Service can securely handle requests from allowed origins, enhancing both security and usability.

By customizing the ``http`` configuration, you can fine-tune how your BentoML Service interacts over HTTP, including adapting to specific network environments, securing cross-origin interactions, and ensuring compatibility with various client applications.

``monitoring``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``monitoring`` allows you to keep track of the performance and health of a Service for maintaining its reliability and efficiency.

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(monitoring={
        "enabled": True,
        "type": "default",
        "options": {
            "log_config_file": "path/to/log/file",
            "log_path": "monitoring"
        }
    })
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``tracing``
^^^^^^^^^^^

You can configure tracing with different exporters like Zipkin, Jaeger, and OTLP and their specific settings.

For full schema of the configurations, see `this file <https://github.com/bentoml/BentoML/blob/1.2/src/bentoml/_internal/configuration/v2/default_configuration.yaml>`_.

Commit message:

docs: Update the concurrency doc (#4602)
* Update the concurrency doc

Signed-off-by: Sherlock113 <sherlockxu07@gmail.com>

* ci: auto fixes from pre-commit.ci

For more information, see https://pre-commit.ci

---------

Signed-off-by: Sherlock113 <sherlockxu07@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/guides/configurations.rst, after:

==============
Configurations
==============

BentoML provides a configuration interface that allows you to customize the runtime behavior for individual Services within a Bento. This document explains the available configuration fields and offers best practice recommendations for configuring your BentoML Services.

How do configurations work
--------------------------

BentoML's default configurations are suitable for a wide range of use cases. However, for more granular control over BentoML's features, you can customize these runtime behaviors (like resource allocation and timeout) using the ``@bentoml.service`` decorator for each Service in your ``service.py`` file.

.. note::

   If you are using BentoML versions prior to 1.2, you need to `set these runtime configurations <https://docs.bentoml.com/en/v1.1.11/guides/configuration.html>`_ via a separate ``configuration.yaml`` file.

You only need to specify the configurations you want to customize. BentoML automatically fills in any unspecified configurations with their default values. The following is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(
        resources={"cpu": "2"},
        traffic={"timeout": 60},
    )
    class Summarization:
        # Service implementation

- ``"cpu": "2"`` indicates that the Service is allocated 2 CPU cores. This is important for ensuring the Service has sufficient processing resources.
- ``"timeout": 60`` sets the maximum duration (in seconds) that the Service will wait for a response before timing out. In this case, it's set to 60 seconds.

Configuration fields
--------------------

BentoML offers a comprehensive set of configuration fields, allowing detailed customization of Services. You can use them to meet the specific requirements of different deployment environments and use cases.

``resources``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``resources`` field in BentoML allows you to specify the resource allocation for a Service, including CPU, memory, and GPU. It is useful for managing and optimizing resource usage, particularly when dealing with resource-intensive tasks. Note that **this field only takes effect on BentoCloud**. Available fields are:

- ``cpu``: The number (or the amount) of CPUs that the Service should use. This is a string, like ``“200m”`` or ``“1”``.
- ``memory``: The amount of memory that the Service should use.
- ``gpu``: The number of GPUs allocated to the Service.
- ``gpu_type``: A specific type of GPU to be used on BentoCloud, following the naming conventions of cloud providers like AWS EC2 or GCP GPU instances. Available values include ``nvidia-tesla-t4``, ``nvidia-tesla-a100``, ``nvidia-a100-80gb``, ``nvidia-a10g``, ``nvidia-l4``, ``nvidia-tesla-v100``, ``nvidia-tesla-p100``, ``nvidia-tesla-k80``, and ``nvidia-tesla-p4``.

We recommend you specify at least one field of ``resources``, so that resources can be automatically allocated to the Service on BentoCloud.

Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(
        resources={
            "cpu": "1",
            "memory": "500Mi",
            "gpu": 4,
            "gpu_type": "nvidia-tesla-a100"
        }
    )
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``workers``
^^^^^^^^^^^

``workers`` defines the process-level parallelism within a Service. It allows you to set the number of worker processes. This configuration is useful for optimizing performance, particularly for high-throughput or compute-intensive Services. ``workers`` defaults to ``1``.

.. dropdown:: About BentoML workers

    Under the hood, there are one or multiple workers within a BentoML Service. Workers refer to the processes that actually run the code logic within the Service. If a Service has multiple workers, it can process multiple requests concurrently. Using multiple workers (as separate processes) allows the Service to handle multiple requests concurrently without being limited by Python's Global Interpreter Lock (GIL).

    Note that configuring too many workers in a BentoML Service can lead to inefficient memory utilization, as each worker independently loads model weights into memory. This can result in high memory consumption, particularly with large models. Additionally, in scenarios where model inference is performed outside the Python process and is thus not limited by the GIL, having too many workers may not significantly improve throughput or resource utilization.

To specify the number of workers (for example, ``3``) within a Service:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(workers=3)
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``workers`` also allows for dynamic CPU allocation using the ``cpu_count`` option. This feature can be particularly useful in environments where you want to automatically scale the number of worker processes based on the available CPU cores.

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(workers="cpu_count")
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``traffic``
^^^^^^^^^^^

``traffic`` in BentoML allows you to manage how requests are handled by your Service. It includes settings for managing request concurrency and ensuring timely responses, which are helpful for optimizing the Service's responsiveness and load management. The following fields are available:

- ``timeout``: Determines the maximum time the Service will wait for a response to be sent back to the client. The default timeout is set to 60 seconds.
- ``concurrency``: Represents the ideal number of simultaneous requests a Service is designed to handle. Concurrency helps optimize resource utilization and influences how BentoCloud autoscales your Service. By default, concurrency is set to allow infinite requests to avoid system bottlenecks.
- ``max_concurrency``: Specifies the hard limit on the number of requests that can be processed simultaneously by a single Service instance. It helps you control the load and prevent the Service from being overwhelmed by too many simultaneous requests.
- ``external_queue``: A BentoCloud-specific field. When deploying a Service on BentoCloud with this field enabled, an external request queue is used to manage incoming traffic more effectively. This is done by queuing excess requests until they can be processed within the defined concurrency limits.

For detailed information, see :doc:`/guides/concurrency`. Here is an example of configuring these settings in your Service definition:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(
        traffic={
            "timeout": 120,
            "concurrency": 10,
            "max_concurrency": 50,
            "external_queue": True,
        }
    )
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``metrics``
^^^^^^^^^^^

``metrics`` defines the collection and customization of performance metrics. BentoML uses `Prometheus <https://prometheus.io/>`_ to collect these metrics, providing insights into the Service's performance. By default, this feature is enabled.

To disable metrics collection:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(metrics={"enabled": False})
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

Following the `labeling convention <https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/naming/#metric-and-label-naming>`_ of Prometheus, metrics generated by BentoML Services will have namespace ``bentoml_service``. To set a custom namespace:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(metrics={"namespace": "custom_namespace"})
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

.. note::

   For most use cases, you don't need to change the default namespace name.

Every BentoML Service will generate three types of metrics:

1. ``request_duration_seconds``: This is a `Histogram <https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#histogram>`_ that measures the HTTP request duration in seconds. You can customize the `duration bucket size <https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/histograms/#count-and-sum-of-observations>`_ for this metric in the following two ways.

   - Manually set the bucket steps for the histogram.

     .. code-block:: python

         @bentoml.service(metrics={"duration": {"buckets": [0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 10]}})
         class MyService:
            # Service implementation

   - Automatically generate exponential buckets with any given ``min`` (the lower bound of the smallest bucket in the histogram), ``max`` (the upper bound of the largest bucket in the histogram) and ``factor`` (determine the exponential growth rate of the bucket sizes. Each subsequent bucket boundary is calculated by multiplying the previous boundary by the factor).

     .. code-block:: python

         @bentoml.service(metrics={"duration": {"min": 0.1, "max": 10, "factor": 1.2}})
         class MyService:
            # Service implementation


     .. note::

        - ``duration.min``, ``duration.max`` and ``duration.factor`` are mutually exclusive with ``duration.buckets``.
        - ``duration.factor`` must be greater than 1.

     By default, BentoML uses the default `duration buckets <https://github.com/prometheus/client_python/blob/f17a8361ad3ed5bc47f193ac03b00911120a8d81/prometheus_client/metrics.py#L544>`_ provided by Prometheus.

2. ``request_total``: A `Counter <https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#counter>`_ that measures the total number of HTTP requests.
3. ``request_in_progress``: A `Gauge <https://prometheus.io/docs/concepts/metric_types/#gauge>`_ that measures the number of HTTP requests in progress.

``runner_probe``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Configure health check settings on BentoCloud for the Service using the endpoints ``readyz``, ``livez``, and ``healthz``. Available fields are:

- ``enabled``: Determines whether the health checks are enabled.
- ``timeout``: The maximum time in seconds to wait for a health check probe to complete before considering it failed.
- ``period``: The frequency, in seconds, at which the health check probes are performed.

Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(runner_probe={"enabled": True, "timeout": 1, "period": 10})
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``logging``
^^^^^^^^^^^

Customize access logging, including the content type and length of requests and responses, and trace ID formats.

Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(logging={
        "access": {
            "enabled": True,
            "request_content_length": True,
            "request_content_type": True,
            "response_content_length": True,
            "response_content_type": True,
            "format": {
                "trace_id": "032x",
                "span_id": "016x"
            }
        }
    })
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``ssl``
^^^^^^^

``ssl`` enables SSL/TLS for secure communication over HTTP requests. It is helpful for protecting sensitive data in transit and ensuring secure connections between clients and your Service.

BentoML parses all the available fields directly to `Uvicorn <https://www.uvicorn.org/settings/#https>`_. Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(ssl={
        "enabled": True,
        "certfile": "/path/to/certfile",
        "keyfile": "/path/to/keyfile",
        "ca_certs": "/path/to/ca_certs",
        "keyfile_password": "",
        "version": 17,
        "cert_reqs": 0,
        "ciphers": "TLSv1"
    })
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``http``
^^^^^^^^

``http`` allows you to customize the settings for the HTTP server that serves your BentoML Service.

By default, BentoML starts an HTTP server on port ``3000``. To change the port:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(http={"port": 5000})
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

You can configure `CORS <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS>`_ settings if your Service needs to accept cross-origin requests. By default, CORS is disabled. If it is enabled, all fields under ``http.cors`` will be parsed to `CORSMiddleware <https://www.starlette.io/middleware/#corsmiddleware>`_. Here is an example:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(http={
        "cors": {
            "enabled": True,
            "access_control_allow_origins": ["http://myorg.com:8080", "https://myorg.com:8080"],
            "access_control_allow_methods": ["GET", "OPTIONS", "POST", "HEAD", "PUT"],
            "access_control_allow_credentials": True,
            "access_control_allow_headers": ["*"],
            "access_control_allow_origin_regex": "https://.*\.my_org\.com",
            "access_control_max_age": 1200,
            "access_control_expose_headers": ["Content-Length"]
        }
    })
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

Configuring CORS is important when your Service is accessed from web applications hosted on different domains. Proper CORS settings ensure that your Service can securely handle requests from allowed origins, enhancing both security and usability.

By customizing the ``http`` configuration, you can fine-tune how your BentoML Service interacts over HTTP, including adapting to specific network environments, securing cross-origin interactions, and ensuring compatibility with various client applications.

``monitoring``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``monitoring`` allows you to keep track of the performance and health of a Service for maintaining its reliability and efficiency.

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(monitoring={
        "enabled": True,
        "type": "default",
        "options": {
            "log_config_file": "path/to/log/file",
            "log_path": "monitoring"
        }
    })
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

``tracing``
^^^^^^^^^^^

You can configure tracing with different exporters like Zipkin, Jaeger, and OTLP and their specific settings.

For full schema of the configurations, see `this file <https://github.com/bentoml/BentoML/blob/1.2/src/bentoml/_internal/configuration/v2/default_configuration.yaml>`_.
