docs/source/guides/gpu-inference.rst, before:

=============
GPU inference
=============

GPU inference with BentoML helps you accelerate the computational efficiency of machine learning models. BentoML provides a streamlined approach to deploying :doc:`/guides/services` that can leverage GPU resources for inference tasks.

This document explains how to configure and allocate GPUs to run inference with BentoML.

Configure GPU resources
-----------------------

When creating your BentoML Service, you need to make sure your Service implementation has the correct GPU configuration.

A single device
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When a single GPU is available, frameworks like PyTorch and TensorFlow default to using ``cuda:0`` or ``cuda``.  In PyTorch, for example, to assign a model to use the GPU, you use ``.to('cuda:0')``. An example of setting up a BentoML Service to use a single GPU:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(resources={"gpu": 1})
    class MyService:
        def __init__(self):
            import torch
            self.model = torch.load('model.pth').to('cuda:0')

Multiple devices
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In systems with multiple GPUs, each GPU is assigned an index starting from 0 (``cuda:0``, ``cuda:1``, ``cuda:2``, etc.). You can specify which GPU to use or distribute operations across multiple GPUs.

To use a specific GPU:

.. code-block::

    @bentoml.service(resources={"gpu": 2})
    class MultiGPUService:
        def __init__(self):
            import torch
            self.model1 = torch.load('model1.pth').to("cuda:0")  # Using the first GPU
            self.model2 = torch.load('model2.pth').to("cuda:1")  # Using the second GPU

This image explains how different models use the GPUs assigned to them.

.. image:: ../../_static/img/guides/gpu-inference/gpu-inference-architecture.png
    :width: 400px
    :align: center

.. note::

    Workers are the processes that actually run the code logic within a BentoML Service. By default, a BentoML Service has one worker. It is possible to set multiple workers and allocate specific GPUs to individual workers. See :doc:`/guides/workers` for details.

If you want to use multiple GPUs for distributed operations (multiple GPUs for the same worker), PyTorch and TensorFlow offer different methods:

- PyTorch: `DataParallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.DataParallel.html>`_ and `DistributedDataParallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel.html>`_
- TensorFlow: `Distributed training <https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/distributed_training>`_

GPU deployment
--------------

To make sure a Bento is using GPUs during deployment, configure its required CUDA version in the ``docker`` field of ``bentofile.yaml``. BentoML will install the corresponding version in the Docker image created. An example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    service: "service:GPUSVC"
    labels:
      owner: bentoml-team
      stage: demo
    include:
    - "*.py"
    python:
      requirements_txt: "./requirements.txt"
    docker:
      cuda_version: "12.1.1" # Set your CUDA version
      distro: debian
      python_version: "3.11.7"

If the desired CUDA version is not natively supported by BentoML, you can customize the installation of CUDA driver and libraries via ``system_packages``, ``setup_script``, or ``base_image`` options under the :ref:`docker-configuration` field.

BentoCloud
^^^^^^^^^^

When deploying on BentoCloud, specify ``resources`` with ``gpu`` or ``gpu_type`` in the ``@bentoml.service`` decorator to allow BentoCloud to allocate the necessary GPU resources:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(
        resources={
            "gpu": 1, # The number of allocated GPUs
            "gpu_type": "nvidia-l4" # A specific GPU type on BentoCloud
        }
    )
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

To list available GPU types on your BentoCloud account, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ bentoml deployment list-instance-types

    Name        Price  CPU    Memory  GPU  GPU Type
    cpu.1       *      500m   2Gi
    cpu.2       *      1000m  2Gi
    cpu.4       *      2000m  8Gi
    cpu.8       *      4000m  16Gi
    gpu.t4.1    *      2000m  8Gi     1    nvidia-tesla-t4
    gpu.l4.1    *      4000m  16Gi    1    nvidia-l4
    gpu.a100.1  *      6000m  43Gi    1    nvidia-tesla-a100

After your Service is ready, you can then deploy it to BentoCloud by running ``bentoml deploy .``. See :doc:`/bentocloud/how-tos/create-deployments` for details.

Docker
^^^^^^

You need to install the NVIDIA Container Toolkit for running Docker containers with Nvidia GPUs. NVIDIA provides `detailed instructions <https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html#docker>`_ for installing both ``Docker CE`` and ``nvidia-docker``.

After you build a Docker image for your Bento with ``bentoml containerize``, you can run it on all available GPUs like this:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker run --gpus all -p 3000:3000 bento_image:latest

You can use the ``device`` option to specify GPUs:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker run --gpus all --device /dev/nvidia0 \
                --device /dev/nvidia-uvm --device /dev/nvidia-uvm-tools \
                --device /dev/nvidia-modeset --device /dev/nvidiactl <docker-args>

To view GPU usage, use the ``nvidia-smi`` tool to see if a BentoML Service or Bento is using GPU. You can run it in a separate terminal while your BentoML Service is handling requests.

.. code-block:: bash

    # Refresh the output every second
    watch -n 1 nvidia-smi

Example output:

.. code-block:: bash

    Every 1.0s: nvidia-smi                            ps49pl48tek0: Mon Jun 17 13:09:46 2024

    Mon Jun 17 13:09:46 2024
    +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | NVIDIA-SMI 535.129.03             Driver Version: 535.129.03   CUDA Version: 12.2     |
    |-----------------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
    | GPU  Name                 Persistence-M | Bus-Id        Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
    | Fan  Temp   Perf          Pwr:Usage/Cap |         Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
    |                                         |                      |               MIG M. |
    |=========================================+======================+======================|
    |   0  NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB          On  | 00000000:00:05.0 Off |                    0 |
    | N/A   30C    P0              60W / 400W |   3493MiB / 81920MiB |      0%      Default |
    |                                         |                      |             Disabled |
    +-----------------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

    +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Processes:                                                                            |
    |  GPU   GI   CI        PID   Type   Process name                            GPU Memory |
    |        ID   ID                                                             Usage      |
    |=======================================================================================|
    |    0   N/A  N/A      1813      G   /usr/lib/xorg/Xorg                           70MiB |
    |    0   N/A  N/A      1946      G   /usr/bin/gnome-shell                         78MiB |
    |    0   N/A  N/A     11197      C   /Home/Documents/BentoML/demo/bin/python     3328MiB |
    +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

For more information, see `the Docker documentation <https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/resource_constraints/#gpu>`_.

Limit GPU visibility
--------------------

By setting ``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES`` to the IDs of the GPUs you want to use, you can limit BentoML to only use certain GPUs for your Service. GPU IDs are typically numbered starting from 0. For example:

- ``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0`` makes only the first GPU visible.
- ``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=1,2`` makes the second and third GPUs visible.

Commit message:

Add CUDA notes
Signed-off-by: Sherlock113 <sherlockxu07@gmail.com>

docs/source/guides/gpu-inference.rst, after:

=============
GPU inference
=============

GPU inference with BentoML helps you accelerate the computational efficiency of machine learning models. BentoML provides a streamlined approach to deploying :doc:`/guides/services` that can leverage GPU resources for inference tasks.

This document explains how to configure and allocate GPUs to run inference with BentoML.

Configure GPU resources
-----------------------

When creating your BentoML Service, you need to make sure your Service implementation has the correct GPU configuration.

A single device
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When a single GPU is available, frameworks like PyTorch and TensorFlow default to using ``cuda:0`` or ``cuda``.  In PyTorch, for example, to assign a model to use the GPU, you use ``.to('cuda:0')``. An example of setting up a BentoML Service to use a single GPU:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(resources={"gpu": 1})
    class MyService:
        def __init__(self):
            import torch
            self.model = torch.load('model.pth').to('cuda:0')

Multiple devices
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In systems with multiple GPUs, each GPU is assigned an index starting from 0 (``cuda:0``, ``cuda:1``, ``cuda:2``, etc.). You can specify which GPU to use or distribute operations across multiple GPUs.

To use a specific GPU:

.. code-block::

    @bentoml.service(resources={"gpu": 2})
    class MultiGPUService:
        def __init__(self):
            import torch
            self.model1 = torch.load('model1.pth').to("cuda:0")  # Using the first GPU
            self.model2 = torch.load('model2.pth').to("cuda:1")  # Using the second GPU

This image explains how different models use the GPUs assigned to them.

.. image:: ../../_static/img/guides/gpu-inference/gpu-inference-architecture.png
    :width: 400px
    :align: center

.. note::

    Workers are the processes that actually run the code logic within a BentoML Service. By default, a BentoML Service has one worker. It is possible to set multiple workers and allocate specific GPUs to individual workers. See :doc:`/guides/workers` for details.

If you want to use multiple GPUs for distributed operations (multiple GPUs for the same worker), PyTorch and TensorFlow offer different methods:

- PyTorch: `DataParallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.DataParallel.html>`_ and `DistributedDataParallel <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.parallel.DistributedDataParallel.html>`_
- TensorFlow: `Distributed training <https://www.tensorflow.org/guide/distributed_training>`_

GPU deployment
--------------

To make sure a Bento is using GPUs during deployment, configure its required CUDA version in the ``docker`` field of ``bentofile.yaml``. BentoML will install the corresponding version in the Docker image created. An example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    service: "service:GPUSVC"
    labels:
      owner: bentoml-team
      stage: demo
    include:
    - "*.py"
    python:
      requirements_txt: "./requirements.txt"
    docker:
      cuda_version: "12.1.1" # Set your CUDA version
      distro: debian
      python_version: "3.11.7"

If the desired CUDA version is not natively supported by BentoML, you can customize the installation of CUDA driver and libraries via ``system_packages``, ``setup_script``, or ``base_image`` options under the :ref:`docker-configuration` field.

When using PyTorch or TensorFlow to run models on GPUs, you don't need to specify ``cuda_version`` in your ``bentofile.yaml`` to install the CUDA Toolkit separately.

- For PyTorch, the required CUDA version will be installed automatically with PyTorch.
- For TensorFlow, install it together with the necessary CUDA version by running:
    
  .. code-block:: bash

     pip install 'tensorflow[and-cuda]'
    
  Add the following to your ``requirements.txt`` file. This ensures the corresponding CUDA version is installed with TensorFlow when the Bento is built.

  .. code-block:: bash

     tensorflow[and-cuda]

BentoCloud
^^^^^^^^^^

When deploying on BentoCloud, specify ``resources`` with ``gpu`` or ``gpu_type`` in the ``@bentoml.service`` decorator to allow BentoCloud to allocate the necessary GPU resources:

.. code-block:: python

    @bentoml.service(
        resources={
            "gpu": 1, # The number of allocated GPUs
            "gpu_type": "nvidia-l4" # A specific GPU type on BentoCloud
        }
    )
    class MyService:
        # Service implementation

To list available GPU types on your BentoCloud account, run:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ bentoml deployment list-instance-types

    Name        Price  CPU    Memory  GPU  GPU Type
    cpu.1       *      500m   2Gi
    cpu.2       *      1000m  2Gi
    cpu.4       *      2000m  8Gi
    cpu.8       *      4000m  16Gi
    gpu.t4.1    *      2000m  8Gi     1    nvidia-tesla-t4
    gpu.l4.1    *      4000m  16Gi    1    nvidia-l4
    gpu.a100.1  *      6000m  43Gi    1    nvidia-tesla-a100

After your Service is ready, you can then deploy it to BentoCloud by running ``bentoml deploy .``. See :doc:`/bentocloud/how-tos/create-deployments` for details.

Docker
^^^^^^

You need to install the NVIDIA Container Toolkit for running Docker containers with Nvidia GPUs. NVIDIA provides `detailed instructions <https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/cloud-native/container-toolkit/install-guide.html#docker>`_ for installing both ``Docker CE`` and ``nvidia-docker``.

After you build a Docker image for your Bento with ``bentoml containerize``, you can run it on all available GPUs like this:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker run --gpus all -p 3000:3000 bento_image:latest

You can use the ``device`` option to specify GPUs:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker run --gpus all --device /dev/nvidia0 \
                --device /dev/nvidia-uvm --device /dev/nvidia-uvm-tools \
                --device /dev/nvidia-modeset --device /dev/nvidiactl <docker-args>

To view GPU usage, use the ``nvidia-smi`` tool to see if a BentoML Service or Bento is using GPU. You can run it in a separate terminal while your BentoML Service is handling requests.

.. code-block:: bash

    # Refresh the output every second
    watch -n 1 nvidia-smi

Example output:

.. code-block:: bash

    Every 1.0s: nvidia-smi                            ps49pl48tek0: Mon Jun 17 13:09:46 2024

    Mon Jun 17 13:09:46 2024
    +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | NVIDIA-SMI 535.129.03             Driver Version: 535.129.03   CUDA Version: 12.2     |
    |-----------------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
    | GPU  Name                 Persistence-M | Bus-Id        Disp.A | Volatile Uncorr. ECC |
    | Fan  Temp   Perf          Pwr:Usage/Cap |         Memory-Usage | GPU-Util  Compute M. |
    |                                         |                      |               MIG M. |
    |=========================================+======================+======================|
    |   0  NVIDIA A100-SXM4-80GB          On  | 00000000:00:05.0 Off |                    0 |
    | N/A   30C    P0              60W / 400W |   3493MiB / 81920MiB |      0%      Default |
    |                                         |                      |             Disabled |
    +-----------------------------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

    +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | Processes:                                                                            |
    |  GPU   GI   CI        PID   Type   Process name                            GPU Memory |
    |        ID   ID                                                             Usage      |
    |=======================================================================================|
    |    0   N/A  N/A      1813      G   /usr/lib/xorg/Xorg                           70MiB |
    |    0   N/A  N/A      1946      G   /usr/bin/gnome-shell                         78MiB |
    |    0   N/A  N/A     11197      C   /Home/Documents/BentoML/demo/bin/python     3328MiB |
    +---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

For more information, see `the Docker documentation <https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/resource_constraints/#gpu>`_.

Limit GPU visibility
--------------------

By setting ``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES`` to the IDs of the GPUs you want to use, you can limit BentoML to only use certain GPUs for your Service. GPU IDs are typically numbered starting from 0. For example:

- ``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0`` makes only the first GPU visible.
- ``CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=1,2`` makes the second and third GPUs visible.
