docs/source/build-with-bentoml/lifecycle-hooks.rst, before:

=========================
Configure lifecycle hooks
=========================

Lifecycle hooks in BentoML offers mechanism to run custom logic at various stages of a Service's lifecycle. By leveraging these hooks, you can perform setup actions at startup, clean up resources before shutdown, and more.

This document provides an overview of lifecycle hooks and how to use them in BentoML :doc:`Services </build-with-bentoml/services>`.

Understand server lifecycle
---------------------------

BentoML's server lifecycle consists of several stages, each providing a unique opportunity to perform specific tasks:

1. **Deployment hooks**. These hooks run before any :doc:`workers </build-with-bentoml/parallelize-requests>` are spawned, making them suitable for one-time global setup tasks. They're crucial for operations that should occur once, regardless of the number of workers.
2. **Spawn workers**. BentoML then spawns worker processes according to the ``workers`` configuration specified in the ``@bentoml.service`` decorator.
3. **Service initialization and ASGI application startup**. During the startup of each worker, any :doc:`integrated ASGI application </build-with-bentoml/asgi>` begins its lifecycle. This is when the ``__init__`` method of your Service class is executed, allowing for instance-specific initialization.
4. **ASGI application teardown**. Finally, as the server shuts down, including the ASGI application, shutdown hooks are executed. This stage is ideal for performing cleanup tasks, ensuring a graceful shutdown.

Configure hooks in a BentoML Service
------------------------------------

This section provides code examples for configuring different BentoML hooks.

Deployment hooks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Deployment hooks are similar to static methods as they do not receive the ``self`` argument. You can define multiple deployment hooks in a Service. Use the ``@bentoml.on_deployment`` decorator to specify a method as a deployment hook. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    import bentoml

    @bentoml.service(workers=4)
    class HookService:
        # Deployment hook does not receive `self` argument. It acts similarly to a static method.
        @bentoml.on_deployment
        def prepare():
            print("Do some preparation work, running only once.")

        # Multiple deployment hooks can be defined
        @bentoml.on_deployment
        def additional_setup():
            print("Do more preparation work if needed, also running only once.")

        def __init__(self) -> None:
            # Startup logic and initialization code
            print("This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.")

        @bentoml.api
        def predict(self, text) -> str:
            # Endpoint implementation logic

After the Service starts, you can see the following output on the server side in order:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ bentoml serve

    Do some preparation work, running only once. # First on_deployment hook
    Do more preparation work if needed, also running only once. # Second on_deployment hook
    2024-03-13T03:12:33+0000 [INFO] [cli] Starting production HTTP BentoServer from "service:HookService" listening on http://localhost:3000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)
    This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.
    This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.
    This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.
    This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.

Startup hooks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Startup hooks are executed during Service initialization, after deployment hooks but before any API endpoints become available. These hooks run once per worker, making them ideal for worker-specific initialization tasks such as establishing database connections or loading resources.

Use the ``@bentoml.on_startup`` decorator to specify a method as a startup hook. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    import bentoml

    @bentoml.service(workers=4)
    class HookService:
        @bentoml.on_deployment
        def prepare():
            print("Global preparation, runs once before workers start.")

        @bentoml.on_startup
        def init_resources(self):
            # This runs once per worker
            print("Initializing resources for worker.")
            self.db_connection = setup_database()

        @bentoml.on_startup
        async def init_async_resources(self):
            # For async initialization tasks
            print("Async resource initialization for worker.")
            self.cache = await setup_cache()

        @bentoml.api
        def predict(self, text) -> str:
            # Use initialized resources in API endpoints
            return self.db_connection.query(text)

When you start this Service, you'll see the following output:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ bentoml serve service:HookService

    Global preparation, runs once before workers start. # on_deployment hook
    2024-03-13T03:12:33+0000 [INFO] [cli] Starting production HTTP BentoServer from "service:HookService" listening on http://localhost:3000
    Initializing resources for worker. # First worker's startup hooks
    Async resource initialization for worker.
    Initializing resources for worker. # Second worker's startup hooks
    Async resource initialization for worker.
    Initializing resources for worker. # Third worker's startup hooks
    Async resource initialization for worker.
    Initializing resources for worker. # Fourth worker's startup hooks
    Async resource initialization for worker.

Shutdown hooks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Shutdown hooks are executed as a BentoML Service is in the process of shutting down. It allows for the execution of cleanup logic such as closing connections, releasing resources, or any other necessary teardown tasks. You can define multiple shutdown hooks in a Service.

Use the ``@bentoml.on_shutdown`` decorator to specify a method as a shutdown hook. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    import bentoml

    @bentoml.service(workers=4)
    class HookService:
        @bentoml.on_deployment
        def prepare():
            print("Do some preparation work, running only once.")

        def __init__(self) -> None:
            # Startup logic and initialization code
            print("This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.")

        @bentoml.api
        def predict(self, text) -> str:
            # Endpoint implementation logic

        @bentoml.on_shutdown
        def shutdown(self):
            # Logic on shutdown
            print("Cleanup actions on Service shutdown.")

        @bentoml.on_shutdown
        async def async_shutdown(self):
            print("Async cleanup actions on Service shutdown.")

Readiness hook
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Readiness hooks allow you to specify custom logic for determining when your Service is ready to handle requests. This is particularly useful when your Service depends on external resources that need to be checked before the Service can be considered operational.

Use ``__is_ready__`` as the readiness hook method name. The hook should return a boolean indicating whether the Service is ready. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    import bentoml

    @bentoml.service(workers=4)
    class HookService:
        def __init__(self) -> None:
            self.db_connection = None
            self.cache = None

        @bentoml.on_startup
        def init_resources(self):
            self.db_connection = setup_database()
            self.cache = setup_cache()

        def __is_ready__(self) -> bool:
            # Check if required resources are available
            if self.db_connection is None or self.cache is None:
                return False
            return self.db_connection.is_connected() and self.cache.is_available()

The readiness hook method can also be asynchronous.
The readiness check is exposed via the ``/readyz`` endpoint. When you call this endpoint, it returns:

- HTTP 200 if the Service is ready (the hook returns ``True``)
- HTTP 503 if the Service is not ready (the hook returns ``False``)

Commit message:

fix: add is_alive hook
Signed-off-by: Frost Ming <me@frostming.com>

docs/source/build-with-bentoml/lifecycle-hooks.rst, after:

=========================
Configure lifecycle hooks
=========================

Lifecycle hooks in BentoML offers mechanism to run custom logic at various stages of a Service's lifecycle. By leveraging these hooks, you can perform setup actions at startup, clean up resources before shutdown, and more.

This document provides an overview of lifecycle hooks and how to use them in BentoML :doc:`Services </build-with-bentoml/services>`.

Understand server lifecycle
---------------------------

BentoML's server lifecycle consists of several stages, each providing a unique opportunity to perform specific tasks:

1. **Deployment hooks**. These hooks run before any :doc:`workers </build-with-bentoml/parallelize-requests>` are spawned, making them suitable for one-time global setup tasks. They're crucial for operations that should occur once, regardless of the number of workers.
2. **Spawn workers**. BentoML then spawns worker processes according to the ``workers`` configuration specified in the ``@bentoml.service`` decorator.
3. **Service initialization and ASGI application startup**. During the startup of each worker, any :doc:`integrated ASGI application </build-with-bentoml/asgi>` begins its lifecycle. This is when the ``__init__`` method of your Service class is executed, allowing for instance-specific initialization.
4. **ASGI application teardown**. Finally, as the server shuts down, including the ASGI application, shutdown hooks are executed. This stage is ideal for performing cleanup tasks, ensuring a graceful shutdown.

Configure hooks in a BentoML Service
------------------------------------

This section provides code examples for configuring different BentoML hooks.

Deployment hooks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Deployment hooks are similar to static methods as they do not receive the ``self`` argument. You can define multiple deployment hooks in a Service. Use the ``@bentoml.on_deployment`` decorator to specify a method as a deployment hook. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    import bentoml

    @bentoml.service(workers=4)
    class HookService:
        # Deployment hook does not receive `self` argument. It acts similarly to a static method.
        @bentoml.on_deployment
        def prepare():
            print("Do some preparation work, running only once.")

        # Multiple deployment hooks can be defined
        @bentoml.on_deployment
        def additional_setup():
            print("Do more preparation work if needed, also running only once.")

        def __init__(self) -> None:
            # Startup logic and initialization code
            print("This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.")

        @bentoml.api
        def predict(self, text) -> str:
            # Endpoint implementation logic

After the Service starts, you can see the following output on the server side in order:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ bentoml serve

    Do some preparation work, running only once. # First on_deployment hook
    Do more preparation work if needed, also running only once. # Second on_deployment hook
    2024-03-13T03:12:33+0000 [INFO] [cli] Starting production HTTP BentoServer from "service:HookService" listening on http://localhost:3000 (Press CTRL+C to quit)
    This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.
    This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.
    This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.
    This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.

Startup hooks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Startup hooks are executed during Service initialization, after deployment hooks but before any API endpoints become available. These hooks run once per worker, making them ideal for worker-specific initialization tasks such as establishing database connections or loading resources.

Use the ``@bentoml.on_startup`` decorator to specify a method as a startup hook. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    import bentoml

    @bentoml.service(workers=4)
    class HookService:
        @bentoml.on_deployment
        def prepare():
            print("Global preparation, runs once before workers start.")

        @bentoml.on_startup
        def init_resources(self):
            # This runs once per worker
            print("Initializing resources for worker.")
            self.db_connection = setup_database()

        @bentoml.on_startup
        async def init_async_resources(self):
            # For async initialization tasks
            print("Async resource initialization for worker.")
            self.cache = await setup_cache()

        @bentoml.api
        def predict(self, text) -> str:
            # Use initialized resources in API endpoints
            return self.db_connection.query(text)

When you start this Service, you'll see the following output:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ bentoml serve service:HookService

    Global preparation, runs once before workers start. # on_deployment hook
    2024-03-13T03:12:33+0000 [INFO] [cli] Starting production HTTP BentoServer from "service:HookService" listening on http://localhost:3000
    Initializing resources for worker. # First worker's startup hooks
    Async resource initialization for worker.
    Initializing resources for worker. # Second worker's startup hooks
    Async resource initialization for worker.
    Initializing resources for worker. # Third worker's startup hooks
    Async resource initialization for worker.
    Initializing resources for worker. # Fourth worker's startup hooks
    Async resource initialization for worker.

Shutdown hooks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Shutdown hooks are executed as a BentoML Service is in the process of shutting down. It allows for the execution of cleanup logic such as closing connections, releasing resources, or any other necessary teardown tasks. You can define multiple shutdown hooks in a Service.

Use the ``@bentoml.on_shutdown`` decorator to specify a method as a shutdown hook. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    import bentoml

    @bentoml.service(workers=4)
    class HookService:
        @bentoml.on_deployment
        def prepare():
            print("Do some preparation work, running only once.")

        def __init__(self) -> None:
            # Startup logic and initialization code
            print("This runs on Service startup, once for each worker, so it runs 4 times.")

        @bentoml.api
        def predict(self, text) -> str:
            # Endpoint implementation logic

        @bentoml.on_shutdown
        def shutdown(self):
            # Logic on shutdown
            print("Cleanup actions on Service shutdown.")

        @bentoml.on_shutdown
        async def async_shutdown(self):
            print("Async cleanup actions on Service shutdown.")

Health check hooks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Health check hooks allow you to specify custom logic for determining when your Service is healthy and ready to handle requests.
This is particularly useful when your Service depends on external resources that need to be checked before the Service can be considered operational.

You can define the following methods in your service class to implement health checks:

- ``__is_alive__``: This method is called to check if the Service is alive. It should return a boolean value indicating the Service's health status. This responds to the ``/livez`` endpoint.
- ``__is_ready__``: This method is called to check if the Service is ready to handle requests. It should return a boolean value indicating the Service's readiness status. This responds to the ``/readyz`` endpoint.

Both can be asynchronous functions.

For example:

.. code-block:: python

    import bentoml

    @bentoml.service(workers=4)
    class HookService:
        def __init__(self) -> None:
            self.db_connection = None
            self.cache = None

        @bentoml.on_startup
        def init_resources(self):
            self.db_connection = setup_database()
            self.cache = setup_cache()

        def __is_ready__(self) -> bool:
            # Check if required resources are available
            if self.db_connection is None or self.cache is None:
                return False
            return self.db_connection.is_connected() and self.cache.is_available()

When you call the ``/readyz`` endpoint, it returns:

- HTTP 200 if the Service is ready (the hook returns ``True``)
- HTTP 503 if the Service is not ready (the hook returns ``False``)
